## DONE as of 07/09/2018
#### General...
1. Confirmed there is no official EOS Aidrop documentation. Just use the EOS API. Shell-script or javascript
2. Decided its better to run a shell-script as javascript is a middle man to the node. Some of the sample code I found is shell-script, some is javascript.

#### Running a Airdrop on Private net
1. Got a local node up and running, Wallet,Keys,Accounts, System BIOS Contract, deployed successfully, created a new Token, persisted.
2. Ran the airdrop (I did not include my full script in the repo yet).
3. Worked off of sample scripts that were used on a testnet, it was easy to comprehend. I read through the sample scripts used on PROD that give higher consideration to EOS Ram, Memory, Bandwith etc. I only found 3 such scripts, and only 2 were PROD usable. All are 'use at your own risk'.
4. Identified EOS RAM cost issue on Main net, see reddit r/eos r/eosdev they say its too expensive ($200,000 USD worth of EOS) to run a full airdrop.

#### Where to Run a EOS Node? Where to Run Airdrop on a EOS Node?
1. No need to run a Docker EOS Container self-hosted in AWS that runs 24/7...
2. Can run a local prod instance in a Docker Container that connects to main net
3. Connect to a EOS node as Saas (e.g. what Infura is to Ethereum) this is recommended. You can connect/airdrop to a node someone else is running.

#### Snapshot
1. I have the genesis snapshot of accounts. I still need to perform due diligence and make sure these exist on the main net and have a EOS balance.
2. There is no tutorial or how-to on generating your own snapshot, it was generated by an organization and provided online for free.

#### Airdrop script
`airdrop-test.sh`

## To-Do
#### Where to Run a EOS Node? Where to Run Airdrop on a EOS Node?
1. Running a airdrop is thousands of scripted RPC calls to the EOS node, so connect to our own Docker EOS self-hosted, or are Saas EOS Nodes okay with this? Perhaps they aren't cool with such high traffic.
2. Run on the eos test net EOS Dawn v4.0.0 Jungle Testnet, Arrowhead, Trinity test nets
3. Comprehend every line of code in the sample scripts.
4. Understand EOS Ram, Memory, Bandwith, Stak'ing.
5. Stay up to date on the issue with EOS RAM costing too mcuh right now, see reddit r/eos r/eosdev

#### Snapshot
1. Snapshot is based on a set of blocks in the EOS blockchain, so maybe I can iterate through the transactions lists (or state trees) in every block and compose a list of all addresses used (and then confirm which ones have balance). It would be a map-reduce job. This way we could define our own range of blocks (i.e. snapshot since MM/DD/YYYY that we define).
2. "X% of the tokens will be allocated to the team" is the team represented by 1 address or will there be multiple (i.e. split)?


#### Aug 5th
Snapshot service
https://medium.com/eos-new-york/snapshots-as-a-service-airdrops-for-all-2bd51548b1ac

Larimer on EOSIO RAM Market & Bancor Algorithm
https://medium.com/@bytemaster/eosio-ram-market-bancor-algorithm-b8e8d4e20c73
RAM is required to store account information such as keys, balances, and contract state
Q. So this data not in the blockchain?


the eosio system contract allows users to buy RAM from the system and sell RAM back to the system in exchange for the blockchains native tokens (e.g EOS)

 The algorithm used for this market maker is known as a Bancor Relay.
A Bancor Relay does not set the price of RAM. It only offers to buy and sell at previously established market rates. Anytime the current market rate is different than the current price offered by the Bancor Relay traders will buy or sell RAM pushing to closer to the market determined price.

While RAM can be bought and sold, it cannot be transferred from user to user. 
 The supply of RAM is managed by voters for the benefit of developers and users which need cheap RAM to build applications. 
 As a holder of RAM the only thing you are entitled to by the blockchain is storing data in contracts. 



Due to an unintentional configuration of the Bancor Relay weights on the EOS blockchain, this parameter is set at .05% rather than 50%. This introduces some heavy slippage for buying and selling large quantities and causes more volatility than desired.
...
As the free market pushes the Relay back to market value pricing of RAM users will experience far less slippage when buying and selling in large quantities. Reducing slippage and volatility provides a more predictable and stable market for both RAM speculators and RAM users.


Dapp developers face two costs when building their system.

The cost of interacting with the blockchain
The cost of hosting a full node


July 4th, 2018
 So much so that deploying a typical smart contract (which uses 10MB of RAM) costs about $40,000 at today’s RAM prices

 interesting...
 It should be possible for non-producing full nodes to rely on virtual memory to reduce costs. The vast majority of CPU capacity of the network is under-utilized so there is opportunity to trade CPU time for RAM.

 "
 The combination of compression, disk-paging, and modern ultra-low-latency disks means that a blockchain community can made a tradeoff between maximum TPS and RAM. After all it doesn’t help anyone if they can do 1 billion TPS if they are limited to the 8MB of L3 cache. There is a market trade-off that all blockchains must make between memory usage, throughput, cost of a full node, and demand for scarce resources.
 "

 https://github.com/EOSIO/eosio.contracts/issues/3


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0dw_BxoDpTQ
 EOS high performance blockchain, so runs its DB inside RAM. maybe this faster than how ethereum does it (blcockahin state as db)
 "buying selling it from the system contract". same amounts back and forth
 'realized not much incentive to relinquish your stakes (sell back the RAM)'...so decided to use an algorithm - the Bancor Protocool
'the more ram that's sold, and the closer you get to the total amoutn available on the network...the more expensive it will get'
'so this could amke incentive for people to sell it back, bc it will be worth more'
55GB RAM has been purchsed but only a few GB's being used

Q. How to deploy smart contract using RAM? ***

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rs8EmyxDRXU
RAM priced 10xd
Developers AND BP's have been buying RAM...
To know if Block Producers have been involved in speculating on RAM
BP's have decision-making powers to increase RAM supply * 
which would lower the price
"BP should make their decision open, to incrase RAM supply, or else they could be fronting the market"
"they could sell tehir RAM before increasing it, then buy it back" market manipulation
2 ways the BPs could inform everyone...
1. Inform the market publicly, like Federal Reserve
2. complete transparency 'why x meets, y' then trigger the update. watch graph or set of figures
currently there's no process *

Tax on sale of RAM was an idea - capital gains tax. if you buy and sell for more $ then you pay tax on that gain

"$15,000-$20,000 to do an airdrop"



https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KVO-scsq9vo
how to buy/sell ram




https://github.com/EOSIO/eos/issues/4497
some RAM cost calculations...



Do I get RAM back after deploying a contract? https://eosio.stackexchange.com/questions/1483/do-i-get-ram-back-after-deploying-a-contract/1484#1484

Buying RAM as part of EOS Smartcontract tutorial https://hackernoon.com/how-to-create-and-deploy-your-own-eos-token-1f4c9cc0eca1

*review previous aridrop scripts see if/how they mentioned RAM


Larmier July 12, 2018
https://medium.com/@bytemaster/a-three-step-plan-for-lowering-eos-account-creation-costs-c3bf1ec736b7


